you
so now let's talk about the extension of
PRSA to derive Lda and to motivate that
when you talk about some deficiency of
PRSA first it's not really generative
model because we can compute the
probability of a new document you can
see why and that's because the PI's are
needed to generate the document but the
PI's are tied to the documents that we
have in the training data so we can up
computer the PI's for a future document
and there is some heuristic a walk
around though and secondly it has many
parameters and I've asked you to compute
the how many parameters exactly there
are in PSA and you will see that there
are many premise that means that motor
is very complex and that also means
there are many local maxima and it's
prone to overfitting and that means it's
very hard to also find a good local
maximum and that really represents a
global maximum and in terms of
explaining future data we might find
that it would over fit the training that
because of the complexity of the model
the model is so flexible to fit that
precisely what the training data looks
like and then it doesn't allow us to
generalize the model for using other
data this however is not necessary
problem for text mining because here we
are often only interested in hitting the
training documents that we have we are
not always interested in modern future
data but in other cases or if we care
about the generality we would worry
about this overfitting
so Lda is proposal to improve that and
basically to make PRSA a generative
model by imposing a dirigida prior on
the model premise the reach that is just
a special distribution that we can use
to specify
prior so in this sense Lda is just a
bayesian version of PRSA and the
parameters are now much more recognized
you will see there are many fewer
parameters and it can achieve the same
goal as PRSA for text mining it means it
can compute the top coverage and topic
water distributions as in PSA
however there is no free lunch why are
the parameters for here
they are much fewer there are fewer
parameters and in order to compute the
top coverage and world distributions we
again face the problem of influence of
these variables because they are not the
parameters of the model so the inference
part again faces the local maxima
problem so essentially they are doing
something very similar but theoretically
aldia is a more elegant way of looking
at the topic model in problem so let's
see how we can generalize PRSA to LD a
or a standard PRSA to have LD 8 now a
full treatment of LD a is beyond the
scope of this course and we just don't
have time to go in depth in talking
about that but here I just want to give
you a brief idea about what's extending
and what it enables right so this is a
picture of LD and now I remove the
background model just for simplicity now
in this model all these parameters are
free to change and we do not put impose
any prior so these word distributions
are now represented as theta I vectors
so these are word distributions so here
and the other set of feminists are PI's
and we pretended as a vector also and
this is what convenience will introduce
l da and we have one vector for each
document and in this case in c da we
have one vector for each topic now that
the difference between out here and here
say is that in LT a we're going to Tom
not allow them to free the Cain instead
we're going to force them to be drawn
from another distribution so most
specifically they will be drawn from two
dirigida the distributions respectively
but originally the distribution is the
distribution over vectors so it gives us
a probability for a particular choice of
a vector
take for example pies right so this deer
is distributing
terrorism which vector of pies is more
likely and this distribution self is
controlled by another vector of premise
alphas
depending on the others we can
characterize the distribution in
different ways it were the false certain
choices of pies to be more likely than
others
for example you might have favored a
choice of a relatively uniform
distribution of all the topics or you
might have favor
generating skilled coverage of topics
and this is controlled by other and
similar here the topic of water
distributions are drawn from another
Teresa distribution with beta parameters
and note that here alpha has K
parameters corresponding to our
inference on the K values of pies for a
document whereas here beta has n values
corresponding to controlling the M words
in our vocabulary now once we impose
these price then the generation process
will be different and we always start
with drawing pies from this duration of
distribution and this pie will tell us
these probabilities and then we're going
to use the pie to further choose which
topic to use and this is of course very
similar to the pric model and similarly
here we are not going to have these
distributions free instead we can do
draw one from the theory of distribution
and then from this then we're going to
further sample world and the rest is
very similar to PRSA the likelihood
function now is more complicated for a
da but there's a close connection
between the likelihood function of area
and the PRSA so I'm the illustrates the
difference here so in the top you see
PRS a likelihood function that you have
already seen before it's copied from
previous slide only that I dropped the
the background for simplicity so in the
AODA formulas and you see very similar
things first you see the first equation
is essentially the same and this is the
probability of generating a word from
multiple word distributions and this
formula is a sum of all the
possibilities of generating the world
inside the Sun is a product of the
probability of choosing a topic multiply
it by the probability of observing the
world from that topic so this is a very
important formula as I have stressed
multiple times and this is after the
coiler assumption in all of the topic
models and you might see other topic
models they have extensions of APA or
PSA and they all rely on this so it's
very important to understand this and
this gives us the probability of getting
a word from a mixture model now next in
the probability of a document we see
there was a PRS a component in the area
formula but the area formula would add a
some integral here and that's to explain
is to account for the fact that the PI's
are not fixed so they are drawn from the
original distribution and that's shown
here that's why we have to take the
integral to consider all the possible
PI's that we could possible they draw
from this distribution the distribution
and and similarly in the likely holder
for the whole collection we also see
further components added another
integral here right so basically in the
APA we just added these integrals to
account for the uncertainties and we
added of course the tuition the
distributions to cover the choice of
these parameters PI's and cleanups so
this is the likelihood function for Lda
now let's next let's talk about the
parameter estimation and inferences now
the parameters can be now estimated
using exactly the same approach in
maximum likelihood estimator for Lda now
you might think about how many
parameters are there in LD a versus PRSA
you will see there are fewer parameters
in LD a because in this case the only
parameters are alphas and betas so we
can use the maximum accuracy method to
compute that of course it's more
complicated because the form of
likelihood function is more complicated
but what's also important is notice that
now the and these parameter that we are
interested in namely the topics and the
coverage are no longer parameters
Lda in this case we have to use Bayesian
inference or posterior inference to
compute them based on the premise alpha
and beta
unfortunately this computation is
intractable so we generally have to
resort to approximate the inference and
there are many methods are available for
that and and you I'm sure you will see
them when you use different toolkits for
Lda or you read the papers about that
these different extensions of Lda
now here we of course I can't give an
in-depth introduction into that but just
know that they are computed based on
Bayesian inference with by using the the
parameters of us and Vedas but L was
medically actually in the end that in
some I wasn't at least it's very similar
to PSA and especially when we use L
wasn't called claps keep sampling then
the arrows looks very similar to the EMF
so in in the end they are doing
something very similar
so to summarize our discussion of
progress with hop the models and these
models provide a general principle way
of mining and analyzing topic syntax
with many applications the best basic
test setup is to take tax data as input
and we're going to output the K topics
each topic is characterized by a wordage
version and we're going to also output
proportions of these topics covered in
each document and PRSA is the basic
atomic model and in fact the most basic
of the model
and this is also often adequate for most
applications that's why we spend a lot
of time to explain PSA in detail now FDA
improves over PSA by imposing priors
this has led to a theoretical eight more
opinion models however in practice Lda
and the PSA tend to give similar
performance so in practice PSA and LD a
woodworker
equally well for most tasks
now here are some gesture readings if
you want to know more about the topic
first is a nice review of probabilistic
topping the models the second paper has
a discussion about how to automatically
label a topic model now I've seen some
distributions and they immediately
suggest a topic but what exactly is the
topic can we use phrases to label the
topic to make it more easy to understand
and this is paper is about the
techniques for doing that the third one
is a empirical comparison of Lda and ps8
for various tasks the conclusion is that
they tend to perform similarly